MAP
Starting in the upper left corner and moving clockwise, shows all of the reported NYC Start Stations in Map #1, the Top 10 Start Stations in Map #2, the Top 10 End Stations in Map #3, and all of the reported End Stations in Map #4.

The most used stations are located near major transit hubs.  Grand Central Station (#519) is the most used NYC station for both Starts and Ends, with Penn Station coming in second for both measures (#3255).

When reviewing both lists' Top 10s, their lists both contained 8 of the same stations, with only 2 stations being unique for each list.  This leads me to speculate that most of the Citi Bike rides are made by commuters going to and from work.

DASHBOARD PASSES
Reviewing the sales of Daily, 3-Day, and Annual Passes, I found a couple a important facts.  Since 2019 data was only through Q1 and Q2, I decided the best apples-to-apples comparisons would be to review recent years based on the same timeframe.  During the deep dive, I discovered the reported 2019 Q2 stopped at June 10, instead of finishing the entire month.  This will lead to underreported results for the month, quarter, and year.

Reviewing the 4 charts in a clockwise fashion and starting in the upper left, you can see the sales of 3-Day Passes held mostly flat for all three years in Q1.  Q2 in 2017 and 2018 were also mostly flat.  The Q2 report of 2019, should be taken with a grain of salt and could likely be projected as similar as previous years’ sales.  Having worked in Manhattan as the program was rolling out, I would speculate most of the 3-Day passes are being bought by tourists.

In the upper right, we have the comparisons of the Day Passes.  These are likely used by a combination of tourists and commuters.  You can see Q1 in 2017 and 2018 was mostly flat, but jumped significantly (even with the non-reported days of June) in 2019.  Q2 grew roughly 32% from 2017 to 2018 and 42% from 2018 to 2019 with 2/3s of June not reported.

In the bottom right, I am displaying a pie chart of all Q1 and Q2 months, where you can customize the months displayed in the pie chart.  Selecting each month individually, you can see the years respective performance clearly.  Once again, June 2019 is under reported by 20 days and leading to underreported results.

In the bottom left, you can see sales of Annual Passes.  Obviously, commuters and residents are the ones buying these.  Sales in Q2 of 2017 and 2018 are slightly higher than Q1, but it shows that people are planning their commuting needs for the year and not just using the annual passes for pleasure rides, like Daily and 3-Day passes.  I would project Q2 of 2019 to be the strongest quarter in this analysis.

GENDER RIDES
We can see a huge disparity of Rides by Gender between Males and Females. A possible hypothesis is that more men commute into NYC than women and use more bikes as a transportation method to get to their offices.  Since the bikes have curved bars, they are designed to be dress/skirt friendly, but with the typical shoes worn in professional attire, I don't believe commuting women to be frequently using the bikes.

Looking at the chart in the bottom left, we see women tend to have longer rides than men.  On the other hand, the unknown category has, by far, the longest duration of rides.  I propose these rides to be tourists and leisure riders, while the declared men and women are more likely the commuters trying to get to work and home.

AGE
I had thought there would be more youth involved in the program, but with a relatively small number of under 20 riders, that encourages my hypothesis that our ridership is commuters and not often residents.  The data has some apparent flaws, both at the 50 year old age and extreme age.  The reporting number of riders at 50 years old is out of proportion with the rest of the trend line and, obviously, the reported ridership at elderly ages can't be accurate.

CONCLUSION
The Citi Bike program has experienced significant growth over recent years.  While the available data has some holes in it, we can still extract some trends, make conclusions, and predictions.

Annual membership campaigns should continue throughout the year.  Daily passes should design a marketing campaign targeting warmer weather months and be planned accordingly.  3-Day passes should be advertised in advance of typical tourist peaks and should consider piggybacking on other NYC tourism campaigns.

Tourist locales and commuting hubs need to remain a focus for marketing and service.  These locations need to be highlighted and visible to the best of our ability.  They will continue to generate the most significant number of ridership.

We have a significantly male dominated customer base.  We need to either focus on the male customer or determine a methodology to attract more females.
